Four Years (#426)
keep-network/tbtc-website: src/pages/news/2024-08-26-4-years-of-tbtc.md

functionality came online.

## 4 years of changes

Though the original version of tBTC was built by the Keep Network, 2021 brought
an opportunity for Keep Network and NuCypher, a similar project with a slightly
different product portfolio, to [merge into one joint
DAO](https://blog.threshold.network/decentralized-merger/). In early 2022, the
first decentralized merger was completed to create the Threshold Network,
whose nodes now operate the systems that back tBTC bridging. In the intervening
time, Threshold has become a full-fledged DAO with an associated legal entity,
various guilds responsible for driving its priorities and products forward, bug
bounty programs associated with tBTC and other protocols backed by the network,
and more.

More recently, Threshold launched [thUSD](https://www.thresholdusd.org/en/), a
stablecoin backed by Bitcoin based on tBTC, which is now being used by the
Threshold DAO to [pay USD
expenses](https://blog.threshold.network/borrowing-against-dao-treasury-assets-for-expenses-thresholds-move-to-thusd/).
L2s from [BOB](https://www.gobob.xyz) to [Mezo](https://mezo.org) have been
relying on tBTC to provide more use cases and possibilities to the world of

> Bitcoin. And finally, tBTC is being bridged from Ethereum to important chains
> like
> [Base](https://blog.threshold.network/navigating-the-future-of-defi-tbtc-launches-on-base/)
> and
> [Polygon](https://blog.threshold.network/unleashing-bitcoin-tbtc-launches-on-polygon-powered-by-wormhole/)
> and being minted natively on high-use chains like
> [Solana](https://blog.threshold.network/tbtc-launches-on-solana/) and, soon,
> Arbitrum.

Author: ```suggestion
Bitcoin. And finally, tBTC is being bridged from Ethereum to marquee chains
like
[Base](https://blog.threshold.network/navigating-the-future-of-defi-tbtc-launches-on-base/)
and
[Polygon](https://blog.threshold.network/unleashing-bitcoin-tbtc-launches-on-polygon-powered-by-wormhole/)
and being minted natively on high-throughput chains like
[Solana](https://blog.threshold.network/tbtc-launches-on-solana/) and, soon,
Arbitrum.
```

Maybe?

---
template: news-item
title: 4 Years of tBTC
description: >-
  Today’s tBTC is a robust, semi-permissioned Bitcoin bridge, iterating toward
  full trust-minimization. tBTC has been in production for 4 years without
  major incident with over [11,000 BTC bridged at its
  peak](https://dune.com/threshold/tbtc?ref=blog.threshold.network), serving
  users on Solana, Arbitrum, Optimism, Polygon, and Ethereum—making it one of
  the most trustworthy bridges in the space.
date: 2024-08-26T12:35:21.390Z
---

4 years since the September 2020 launch of tBTC v1, tBTC continues to be one of
the few bridges that has never suffered a loss of funds. For those 4 years, and
the 2 years of development that preceded them, the teams at
[Thesis](https://thesis.co) and [the Threshold
Network](https://threshold.network) that have worked on the tBTC infrastructure
have been focused on the three principles outlined in [tBTC is for
L2s](/news/2024-04-15-tbtc-is-for-l2s):

- Security first
- Credible neutrality
- Economic alignment

## 4 years of learnings

> In the early hours of May 18, 2020, at the height of COVID restrictions, the

Author: "Before front running white hat hackers and seal911..."
